Hello everybody and welcome to this lecture where we're going to add a second bone and we're going to
discover some of the pitfalls that you may run across when you try and do some parenting because ultimately
we need to tell blender that this part of our lower arm is being controlled by this top bone and the
stem is going to be controlled by the lower bone.
However when we parent them together you'll see some odd things happen and also how to avoid them OK.
So the first thing I want to cover is adding multiple bones to one armature.
So that's the first thing to note here that we are only going to have one armature.
So let's go ahead and just create the armature that we'd have normally just one bone there.
Now if we go and add another armature that's completely separate and we don't want to do that.
What we want to do is have one armature per thing that we're moving around as if it had its own skeleton.
If we go into edit mode we then get the option to add additional bones and there's two major ways of
doing this.
We can extend what's already here or we can add a brand new bone in this particular section there's
gonna be no need to add an individual bone but you can go up to add and you can see a shift and a will
actually add that single bone.
So shift them A and you've got an additional bone.
The question is Where is it.
Where's it gone.
Well we select this one just move it out the way there it is it has it in a way.
So what we can do.
I'm going to look around to an awful graphic perspective it gives us a much better control about laying
out a certain skeleton.
We can either press the E key which essentially extrude a new bone which is pretty awesome.
We can also extrude bones further back along a chain.
And that's important.
If you're making an animal or something along those lines of course the leg.
Like your arms are connected to the shoulders which is connected to your chest or torso and all joins
together in one place.
So this is like two little arms dangling out there.
And if I were to grab this one and extrude backwards we appear to have legs going the other way.
So one of the important things to remember is that you must have a decent flow along your model and
it usually in the case of a human or an animal go down to the hips or somewhere like that for our lamp
though it's going to start from the base.
So I'm going to select this individual bone smack bang in the middle press El to select all of the ones
are linked.
Notice that it doesn't automatically select the other two in t press El.
A couple more times.
So it selected one of the chains of bones first and then the next one and then the one afterwards.
I want to get rid of that.
So the other way that you can extend the bone is whilst you've got it selected is press control and
right click.
Now if you just keep right clicking You can add more and more bones.
So that's a very quick way of adding a skeleton as well.
You may have noticed at the very bottom of the screen when I press control the shortcuts all changed.
So at the moment while my while my mouse cursor is over the 3D view we've got select box select rotate
view and arm which context menu.
However if I go ahead and press the control key we can see that right click it becomes a click extrude
which is really really useful.
Occasionally you may have to press control again.
I did have a little issue earlier where for some reason just holding down control didn't work I had
to repress control as I went.
Now one thing to bear in mind here is as you're creating these bones they are just being assigned different
names.
Now the bones name is separate to the armature name so we've got the armature here.
But if we scroll down and we go to the green bone as it were at the bottom here we get bone 10 and this
one here be eleven 12 etc. and this one is probably bone 0 0 1.
So that's something to watch out for that you can create a ton of bones and not really know what they
linked to.
And it's important to give them a name.
And what I would advise is that if we had let's say a series of objects here let's let's do that.
Let's go ahead and add in a cube just here scaled it down slightly and I'm just going to duplicate this
for several points.
Now if I were making bones to match here I would make sure that this bone the first bone there.
Let's go into edit mode because we all need to do that.
This bone here had the same name as the object it was going to control.
So in this case this would be cube.
And that gives us a great insight in how the skeleton affects the mesh that it's controlling.
If you didn't do that and just named it something random it can be incredibly hard later on to control
and there's something that we'll look at later on called The armature modifier which is reliant on the
names matching and if we get that right from the word go then we're not going to be trying to correct
things later on okay so your challenge at another bone to a lamp and then name the bones you may or
may not have already done this.
If you have great I sometimes gallop ahead and completely forget to do things I've told you guys to
do.
If you do ever catch me doing that slap on my wrists but I usually do spot it eventually.
Now position the bones tail in line with the top of the lower arms as you're adding them in.
You may even have to adjust the original stem bone from where we placed it previously when we started
adding more to the bottom of the lamp.
And finally I'd like to parent the bones to the stem and the lower arm.
Now you may discover an issue when you start doing this parenting you may end up with your mesh object
or mesh objects coming off in different directions.
If that does happen.
See if you can figure out what's going on.
And would dive into a bit more details in the following upcoming lecture pause video now and give that
a go
okay.
Everybody welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and hop on over in splendour adult bone and parents everything together OK.
So let's get rid of our funky snake there.
Now I I want a safer.
So this is where we left off before lamps looking pretty good.
I'm going to turn my overlays back on I can see straight away that this bone at the bottom is not going
to be tall enough.
So that's the first thing I'm going to do I'm gonna whiz round to the side view the rights or the graphic.
Once I'm there let's go ahead.
See if I can select my bone go into edit mode.
Grab this top bit g z.
Now the first set is the wrong one that's preset again.
Lift it up and I don't have to be terribly precise at this point.
I'm going to press the E key to just extrude my hands although already over that part of the keyboard
and put it roughly in the right place.
The next thing I'm going to go through is I'm going to go to the boat menu.
This is called Bones 001 I'm going to make sure the whole thing's selected and I'm going to call this
pool.
Let's make sure it matches exactly what we've got up here.
So we've got the lower arm mirror.
That's that's okay.
Where have I hidden my mesh objects.
Right let's go ahead and select it.
I've called it lower arm and it's hidden under this lamp stem lower the parenting we were doing before.
So this is called lower arm.
I'm going to go ahead and copy that dive back to this balloon and call it lower arm.
Brilliant.
Let's see the same with this one it's just called bone.
This is gonna be lump stem so hopefully I'll be able to copy yes and paste it straight in.
So that's a great way of moving from one area to the other.
So these are definitely named how we want them to.
Let's go ahead now and go back to object mode so we can select individual objects and give the cell
at the upper arm this top bone.
Now this is how it can be quite confusing because when you do this the whole armature highlights but
because we selected this bone when we go ahead go control and P to parents to the bone that's important
not just to the objects to the bone it will go to place.
Okay.
Let's go ahead.
Select this one hold down shift select the bone underneath.
Always good so far.
Go control and pay.
Yeah.
And bone eek.
What's happened there.
Mm hmm.
Well if anything like this happens that means that transforms have switched around.
Now if you remember we constructed the lamp over here or suddenly I did.
And you may find that if you are following along exactly you may have this problem and this has to do
with transforms if I undo that last parenting and go to the sidebar property is going to click on the
item tab and select that lowest them.
Now it's got a load a real world location of 2 6 1.
Okay.
Well why is it in the center of the scene.
Well the lamp stem is parents of the lamp so there's a couple of things we can do here we can uncouple
that parenting which would solve this particular issue.
So I'm going to select that go Old Tom pay.
And when I clear the parents.
So it used to have a parent were going to clear it.
We're going to clear and keep the transformation.
If I didn't clear the transformation it would pop over to here it would be a similar problem as we had
before.
But of course then you could go up to the top here and type in 0 and it would come back clear and a
transformation just does that for us.
Okay.
So that is something to watch out for.
Now when I go ahead and select that followed by the bone underneath go control them pay parents it to
the bone.
We don't have it hopping around everywhere and I can also do the same to this base I'm going to select
the base and this bone and parents to the bone as well.
That's important because as we're moving things later on and we can check that.
Okay.
Let's go ahead and move this around.
Excellent.
Everything's moving as we'd expect so apart from that empty.
So we need apparently empty to something for the moment.
I'm going to parent it to this bottom bone as well but we may find later on when we're moving things
around that we may need to dig it and point it somewhere else.
Now the whole lamp moves and rotates as it should do and everything.
Now parents are the armature rather than to each other and that's the really important thing here.
If you've got the armature controlling movement that's the skeleton you want everything all of the parts
of your model to hang from that skeleton not have things hanging off of each other and then hoping that
nothing crazy happens when you animate later on.
Okay.
So there we go.
That's it for this lecture.
Did you come across any particular issues when it came to bits starting everywhere.
If he did let us know in the discussions.
Share your work over in the discussions including how you solved it.
If you happen to have done that yet and we'll talk more about these transforms in the next lecture.